---
title: 'X.509'
description: 'X.509 standard in Peridio Core for public key certificates - used for device authentication via mutual TLS and just-in-time provisioning with CA certificates.'
---

X.509 is an ITU standard defining the format of public key certificates.

Peridio leverages this standard when authenticating [device certificates](/peridio-core/reference/device-management/device-certificates) via mutual TLS and [just-in-time provisioning](/peridio-core/reference/device-management/just-in-time-provisioning) devices based on the signing [CA certificate](/peridio-core/reference/device-management/ca-certificates).

## Private and public keys

Every X.509 certificate has a public key within it. The public key is derived from a private key. When considered together they are referred to as an asymetric key pair. Generally, this field is refered to as [public-key cryptography](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public-key_cryptography) or asymmetric cryptography.

To create an asymmetric key pair, one must first decide on a public key algorithm to use, this choice dictates:

- The cryptographic properties of the keys and in turn their capabilities and security guarantees.
- The processes required to create and interact with the keys.

This guide will use the [ECDSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm) public key algorithm, but RSA and DSA are other common choices.

Effective security requires keeping the private key private; the public key can be openly distributed without compromising security.

To inspect a private key with `openssl`:

```console
openssl ecparam \
  -in key.pem \
  -text \
  -noout
```

## Certificates

To inspect a certificate signing request with `openssl`:

```console
openssl req \
  -in certificate-signing-request.pem \
  -text \
  -noout
```

To inspect a certificate with `openssl`:

```console
openssl x509 \
  -in certificate.pem \
  -text \
  -noout
```

### Root

A root certificate authority is a certificate that:

- is self-signed
- is capable of signing certificates

### Intermediate

An intermediate certificate authority is a certificate that:

- is not self signed
- is signed either by an intermediate certificate authority or a root certificate authority
- is capable of signing certificates

### End-entity

An end-entity certificate is a certificate that:

- is not self signed
- is signed by either an intermediate certificate authority or a root certificate authority
- is not capable of signing certificates

## Security

- Require TLS to enforce encrypted communications.
- Provide HMAC-SHA256 request signatures.
- Provide published at data to prevent replay attacks.
